Andrews: I HAVE SOME PICTURES.
THESE ARE SOME HAPPY
PICTURES, REALLY.
THIS PICTURE IS MICHELE
EATING HER BIRTHDAY CAKE.
I BELIEVE THAT WAS HER
FIRST BIRTHDAY.
I JUST LOVE THAT SHE HAD
HER FINGERS IN THE CAKE.
EVEN THOUGH MY DAUGHTER
WAS MISSING,
EVEN THOUGH THERE WAS SUSPICION
THAT SHE COULD BE
NOT ALIVE ANYMORE,
I STILL WAS AS DETERMINED,
AND I WAS STILL AS HEARTBROKEN.
♪♪
IT'S A WHOLE GAMUT
OF POSSIBILITIES.
THERE WAS A LOOSE ASSOCIATION
WITH A MURDER CASE WE HAD.
♪♪
I THINK WE ALL JUST THOUGHT
THAT SHE WAS IN THE WRONG PLACE
AT THE WRONG TIME.
♪♪
MY HUSBAND WAS DOWNSTAIRS
IN THE SUNROOM, AND I SAID,
"CHUCK, THEY FOUND HER."
[ INHALES/EXHALES SHARPLY ]
-- Captions by VITAC --
www.vitac.com
CAPTIONS PAID FOR BY
DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS
Andrews: SHELLI, DON'T YOU
RUN AWAY FROM ME!
SHELLI!
WE'VE HAD BIG ARGUMENTS BEFORE,
BUT THIS WAS A BIG ONE.
I'M NOT FINISHED
TALKING TO YOU YET!
I DON'T REMEMBER WHAT WE ARGUED
ABOUT, TO BE HONEST WITH YOU.
[ SLAMS DOOR ]
WE WERE REALLY, REALLY,
REALLY AT ODDS,
AND THERE WAS NOTHING
I COULD SAY TO HER
TO MAKE HER
STRAIGHTEN HERSELF UP.
Narrator:
LAURA ANDREWS IS WORRIED
THAT HER 32-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER,
MICHELE, IS MAKING
ALL THE WRONG CHOICES.
DON'T EVER SHUT A DOOR
ON ME AGAIN.
SHELLI!
Andrews: SHE WAS JUST DRIFTING.
SHE'S GOT FRIENDS THAT
ARE NOT REALLY FRIENDS,
PEOPLE THAT ARE...
LIFESTYLES ARE NOT HEALTHY.
SHE WORKED OCCASIONALLY
AT THE DINER TO FILL IN
WHEN SOMEBODY CALLED OFF,
AND THEY NEEDED EXTRA HELP,
BUT SHE WAS STAYING
WITH DIFFERENT PEOPLE,
SLEEPING ON THE COUCHES
OR IN A CAR.
SHE JUST HAD NO DIRECTION.
YOU NEED TO
BACK THE HELL OFF.
I'M TRYING TO HELP YOU.
THIS IS HELP?
YOU HAVE NO IDEA THE HALF
OF WHAT'S GOING ON.
I THOUGHT THAT TOUGH LOVE WAS
THE ONLY CHOICE I HAD LEFT.
YOU'RE 32.
YOU KIND OF LIVE AT HOME.
YOU'RE SOMETIMES EMPLOYED.
IF I'M SUCH A FAILURE,
IT'S YOU'RE FAULT.
GREAT JOB, MOM.
YOU KNOW WHAT?
I'M DONE.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
YOU NEED TO GO.
SHE TOOK OFF AFTER THAT,
AND I JUST THOUGHT,
"WELL, I'LL SEE HER
IN A DAY OR 2."
SHE'S MAD AT ME.
SHE WON'T TALK TO ME
FOR A WHILE.
Narrator:
BUT IN THE DAYS THAT FOLLOW,
THERE'S NO WORD FROM MICHELE
UNTIL LAURA GETS A CALL
FROM A FRIEND
OF HER DAUGHTER'S
NAMED BRANTLEY COOKE.
Andrews:
SHE HAD BEEN, APPARENTLY,
SLEEPING ON HIS COUCH
FOR A FEW DAYS,
NOT VERY LONG.
NOTHING WAS GOING ON.
IT WAS JUST A FELLA
GIVING HER A BREAK, AND HE SAID,
"HAVE YOU HEARD FROM MICHELE?"
AND I SAID, "NO," AND HE SAID,
"WELL, SHE'S BEEN STAYING HERE,
AND I HAVEN'T SEEN HER
FOR 2 OR 3 NIGHTS."
OH, DAMMIT.
AND HE SAYS, "I'M WORRIED
BECAUSE SHE'S KEPT IN TOUCH,
AND I CAN'T REACH HER,"
AND I SAID, "OH, GOODNESS."
I'M SURE I PROBABLY CALLED
EVERYBODY THAT I KNEW TO CALL.
I COULDN'T FIND HER.
I KNEW SOMETHING WAS WRONG
AND WAS NOT GOING TO BE GOOD.
Genson: I MEAN, I JUST REMEMBER
MOM, YOU KNOW, CALLING ME
AND JUST SAYING THAT, YOU KNOW,
"YOUR SISTER IS MISSING.
WE HAVE NO IDEA WHERE SHE IS.
WE HAVEN'T HEARD FROM HER."
THAT WAS ONE OF
THE BIGGEST THINGS.
SHELLI ALWAYS CALLED.
IF SHE DIDN'T CALL MOM, LIKE, IF
THEY WERE FIGHTING OR SOMETHING,
SHE CALLED ME, SO YOU KNEW
SOMETHING WAS WRONG.
♪♪
WE HAD A GREAT CHILDHOOD.
WE DID A LOT OF STUFF TOGETHER.
WE HAD SOME OF THE SAME FRIENDS.
YOU KNOW, JUST, I DON'T KNOW.
WE WERE VERY CLOSE.
Narrator: RAISED IN THE SMALL
TOWN OF GENESEO, ILLINOIS,
MICHELE WAS ONE
OF FIVE CHILDREN.
WITH THREE OLDER BROTHERS
AND A YOUNGER SISTER,
HER CHILDHOOD WAS IDYLLIC.
Genson: I MEAN, I JUST REMEMBER
GOING TO THE PIZZA PARLOR
AND ICE-CREAM SHOP.
SHELLI HAD THE BIGGEST HEART.
SHE LOVED EVERYBODY.
SHE WANTED EVERYBODY
TO LOVE HER,
ALMOST TO A FAULT, SOMETIMES,
BECAUSE SHE WAS SO, LIKE,
GIVING AND OPEN TO EVERYBODY.
SHE HAD LOTS OF FRIENDS THERE,
AND SHE WAS A REALLY HAPPY KID.
SHE REALLY WAS.
Narrator: BUT AT 15 YEARS OLD,
MICHELE'S PERFECT WORLD
IS SHATTERED WHEN THE FAMILY
RELOCATES TO NORTH CAROLINA.
MY HUSBAND FOUND A JOB,
ACTUALLY, IN GASTONIA.
IT WAS A TOUGH TIME
TO MAKE A MOVE.
IT REALLY WAS BECAUSE SHE WENT
INTO A HIGH SCHOOL
THAT SHE KNEW NOBODY.
SHE MADE FRIENDS, BUT, YOU KNOW,
IT WAS STILL DIFFICULT FOR HER.
YOU ARE MY DAUGHTER.
YOU ARE MY RESPONSIBILITY, AND
YOU ARE NOT GOING TO THAT PARTY.
WHY DO YOU INSIST
ON MAKING ME SO MISERABLE?
MY RULES, OR YOU'RE OUT.
Narrator: SOON, MOTHER
AND DAUGHTER ARE AT WAR.
SO STUPID, I CAN MAKE
MY OWN DECISION.
I WOULD DEFINITELY SAY
THAT SHE STARTED TO REBEL
DURING HIGH SCHOOL.
I THINK IT WAS HER WAY TO COPE
WITH MOVING TO THE SOUTH.
SHE WOULD BLAME MOM
FOR A LOT OF THINGS AND SAY THAT
MOM WAS BEING TOO PROTECTIVE,
OR MOM WAS SETTING
TOO MANY RULES OR WHATEVER.
THAT'S DEFINITELY WHEN
IT STARTED GOING SOUTH.
Narrator: DURING HER SENIOR YEAR
OF HIGH SCHOOL,
MICHELE CONSIDERS
JOINING THE NAVY
BUT INSTEAD FALLS FOR
THE RECRUITER, ROBERT BAGLEY.
HE WAS PROBABLY ABOUT 6 OR 8
YEARS OLDER THAN HER,
AND HE SEEMED TO BE
REALLY RESPONSIBLE,
AND SHE WAS CRAZY ABOUT HIM.
Narrator:
RIGHT AFTER GRADUATION,
THE TWO MARRY IN A SMALL
BACKYARD CEREMONY.
Andrews: SO I THOUGHT, "WELL,
THIS MIGHT BE OKAY."
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE
DO MARRY YOUNG, AS I DID,
AND WE'RE MARRIED
ALMOST 53 YEARS,
SO, YOU KNOW, THAT'S NOT HAVE
TO WORST THING IN THE WORLD.
Narrator: BUT THE MARRIAGE
DOESN'T LAST LONG.
Andrews: I DON'T THINK THEY WERE
TOGETHER, MAYBE, A YEAR,
AND IT WAS BAD,
AND IT GOT WORSE,
AND SHE NEEDED TO GET
AWAY FROM THAT MAN,
AND SHE DID.
Genson: IT TORE HER UP,
AND SOMEBODY LIKE SHELLI
TAKES ALL OF IT TO HEART,
AND SHE IS GOING TO
BLAME HERSELF FOR IT.
♪♪
Narrator:
AFTER HER DIVORCE, MICHELE'S
FAMILY MOVES TO SPARTANBURG,
AN HOUR NORTH OF GASTONIA.
NOW 24 YEARS OLD,
MICHELE STRUGGLES TO GET
HER LIFE BACK ON TRACK.
SHE WAS WORKING, I THINK,
PART-TIME, PROBABLY.
OKAY.
YOUR SIDES?
SHE DIDN'T HAVE, REALLY,
ANY SKILLS
OTHER THAN WHAT
HIGH SCHOOL TEACHES YOU.
AND DRINK?
Narrator:
WHILE MICHELE TRIES TO MAKE
ENDS MEET, HER SISTER, LYNDA,
RELOCATES TO ATLANTA
TO ATTEND COLLEGE.
ORDER IN.
Genson: WE KIND OF TOOK
TOTALLY DIFFERENT PATHS.
I THINK SHE WAS
DISAPPOINTED IN HERSELF.
YOU COULD TELL SHELLI,
OVER AND OVER AGAIN,
HOW SHE COULD DO
SO MUCH WITH HER LIFE,
AND SHE NEVER WOULD BELIEVE YOU.
SHE WOULD JUST KEEP ON
DOING THINGS
TO MAKE HER LIFE JUST WORSE.
SHE WAS A REBELLIOUS,
CONFUSED YOUNG ADULT FOR YEARS,
AND IT WAS TOUGH.
[ DISTANT THUNDER RUMBLES ]
Narrator: BY THE AGE OF 30,
MICHELE IS STILL STRUGGLING
TO KEEP HER LIFE
ON A POSITIVE TRACK.
THEN, ONE NIGHT AFTER WORK,
SHE MEETS 25-YEAR-OLD
DAVID COLLINS
WHO'S IN TOWN,
VISITING FAMILY.
GOOD NIGHT?
BUS-FARE LEVEL.
WHERE YOU HEADED?
THREE MILES DOWN 29.
GOT A FEW MINUTES TO SPARE.
LET ME GIVE YOU A RIDE.
Andrews: AND SHE MADE THE
MISTAKE OF GETTING IN A CAR,
AND HE TOOK HER
A COUPLE PLACES.
♪♪
SHE CALLED ME ON THE PHONE
AND SAID, "MOM,"
AND SHE WAS CRYING,
AND SHE SAID, "I'VE BEEN RAPED,"
AND SHE WAS TORN UP, DEVASTATED.
I SAID, "I'M CALLING 911."
SHE WAS A MESS.
I MEAN, SHE WAS BEAT UP.
SHE HAD HER FACE BROKEN.
IT WAS AWFUL.
Genson: WHEN SHE WAS READY TO
TALK AND ABLE TO TALK,
I FEEL LIKE SHE WAS MORE,
LIKE, EMBARRASSED
OR, LIKE, AGAIN, BLAMED HERSELF
FOR SOMETHING HAPPENING,
THAT SHE MUST HAVE DONE
SOMETHING TO DESERVE IT.
Andrews: NOBODY DESERVES THAT
AT ALL, NOBODY,
BUT SHE GOT IN A CAR
WITH A STRANGER, AND I SAID,
"WHY IN HEAVEN'S NAME WOULD YOU
DO SOMETHING LIKE THAT?
YOU SET YOURSELF UP FOR SOMEONE
EVIL LIKE THAT TO HURT YOU."
DON'T TAKE THIS
THE WRONG WAY.
BUT...WHAT WERE YOU
THINKING?
REALLY?
THIS IS PROBABLY ONE THING
THAT REALLY HURT HER,
AND SHE WAS UPSET WITH ME
BECAUSE I PUT
SOME RESPONSIBILITY
FOR HER BEHAVING IRRESPONSIBLE,
AND MAYBE THAT SOUNDS CRUEL,
BUT I'M TRYING TO
TEACH HER SOMETHING.
SHE JUST FIGURED
THAT WE DIDN'T CARE.
Narrator: MICHELE GIVES THE
POLICE DETAILED INFORMATION
ABOUT DAVID COLLINS,
AND A YEAR LATER,
THEY TRACK HIM DOWN IN FLORIDA.
HE MAKES A DEAL AND AGREES
TO PLEAD GUILTY
TO ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
HE'S SENTENCED TO 8 YEARS
IN PRISON.
Genson: SHELLI KEPT EVERYTHING
INSIDE, THOUGH.
SHE'S NOT GOING TO JUST BE ABLE
TO MOVE ON AND FORGET ABOUT IT.
SHE JUST, YOU KNOW,
KEPT SPIRALING.
Andrews: DON'T YOU
WALK AWAY FROM ME, SHELLI!
Narrator: AFTER THE TRAUMA
OF HER RAPE...
I'M NOT FINISHED
WITH YOU YET!
...MICHELE'S LIFE GROWS
INCREASINGLY UNSTABLE.
AND NOW, AFTER A BITTER
FIGHT WITH HER MOTHER,
SHE SEEMS TO HAVE
DISAPPEARED FOR GOOD.
♪♪
Andrews:
THE NEXT DAY, I WENT TO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT, AND I SAID,
"MY DAUGHTER IS MISSING,
AND THIS ISN'T LIKE HER.
USUALLY,
SHE'LL CONTACT SOMEBODY,
AND I'M WORRIED."
I WAS TOLD, "SHE'S AN ADULT,
AND THERE'S NOTHING
WE CAN DO ABOUT IT."
Narrator: SO LAURA CALLS HER
GOOD FRIEND, ALLAN WOOD,
WHO HAPPENS TO BE A SERGEANT
FOR THE SPARTANBURG
COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE
I BECAME FRIENDS WITH LAURA
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD I LIVED IN.
SHE LIVED ABOUT FIVE
OR SIX HOUSES DOWN FROM ME.
BECAUSE OF MICHELE'S
TRANSIT KIND OF LIFESTYLE,
I ASSURED LAURA THAT, PERHAPS,
MICHELE WOULD COME BACK,
THAT JUST GIVE IT SOME TIME,
KEEP REACHING OUT
TO HER CIRCLE OF FRIENDS
OR ACQUAINTANCES TO SEE IF
ANYBODY'S SEEN
OR HEARD FROM HER.
Narrator:
DURING THE DAYS THAT FOLLOW,
LAURA CONTINUES TO CONTACT
EVERYONE SHE CAN THINK OF,
BUT THERE'S STILL
NO NEWS OF MICHELE.
♪♪
ON AUGUST 21ST, LAURA FILES
A MISSING-PERSONS REPORT
WITH THE SHERIFF'S OFFICE.
I REMEMBER HER TELLING ME
THAT, PERHAPS,
SOMETHING MORE HAS GONE ON HERE
THAN MICHELE JUST HAVING
A TEMPER TANTRUM.
MICHELE HAD SUCH AN ANCHOR
WITH HER MOM.
IT KIND OF RAISES
YOUR INTEREST THAT, PERHAPS,
THIS ISN'T YOUR TYPICAL PERSON
WHO IS JUST MISSING.
Narrator:
INVESTIGATORS RUN A CHECK
OF MICHELE'S BANK RECORDS
BUT FIND NO ACTIVITY
SINCE SHE'S BEEN GONE.
THEY ALSO DIG
INTO HER BACKGROUND.
Wood:
SINCE SHE HAD A PRIOR MARRIAGE,
THAT WAS ONE OF THE PLACES
THAT WE ENTERTAINED.
IS THAT PERSON
ACCESSIBLE TO HER?
IS THERE ANY CHANCE THAT HE
COULD RUN INTO HER SOMEWHERE?
YOU RUN DOWN ALIBIS
FOR THE INDIVIDUAL
TO SEE IF THEY COULD
HAVE BEEN INVOLVED,
AND WE FELT VERY COMFORTABLE
THAT HE WAS NOT INVOLVED
IN ANYTHING, EITHER.
Narrator: AND AFTER TALKING TO
FAMILY AND FRIENDS,
INVESTIGATORS FEEL STRONGLY
THAT MICHELE DIDN'T
TAKE HER OWN LIFE.
Wood: SUICIDE WAS RULED OUT.
SHE'S NEVER DISPLAYED
ANY MOTIVES OR ACTIONS
OR FEELINGS OR COMMENTS
ABOUT ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
AFTER THE INITIAL INTERVIEW
OF PEOPLE THAT KNEW HER,
WHETHER IT BE SOCIAL OR WORK,
YOU START REACHING OUT
A LITTLE BIT FURTHER.
Narrator:
AND THEY SOON GET A HUGE LEAD.
INVESTIGATORS FIND THE LAST
PERSON TO HAVE SEEN MICHELE,
AND HE'S WILLING
TO SHARE HIS STORY.
Wood: THERE WAS AN INDIVIDUAL
NAMED DOUG THAT STEPPED FORWARD
AND SAID THAT HE WAS
WITH MICHELE ONE EVENING.
HE HAD A LITTLE BIT
OF A CRIMINAL HISTORY.
INITIALLY, WHEN PEOPLE INSERT
THEMSELVES IN AN INVESTIGATION,
IT DRAWS SOME CONCERN
FROM LAW ENFORCEMENT,
ESPECIALLY WHEN
THE CIRCUMSTANCES
ARE KIND OF SKETCHY.
IT WAS LIKE, "THIS GUY
HAS TO KNOW SOMETHING,
OR HE HAD TO HAVE
DONE SOMETHING."
[ ENGINE REVS ]
♪♪
SHELLI USED TO FREQUENT
CERTAIN PLACES,
AND I DROVE AROUND
TO SEE IF I'D SEE HER.
YOU SEE SOMEBODY
WITH HER HAIRSTYLE
AND HER LITTLE, SKINNY BODY,
AND, YOU KNOW,
WALKING DOWN THE STREET.
IF IT'S FAMILIAR,
YOU TAKE A SECOND LOOK.
SURE, YOU DO.
IT WAS HORRIBLE.
Narrator:
AFTER SPEAKING WITH MICHELE'S
FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES,
POLICE ARE ANXIOUS TO
FOLLOW UP WITH DOUG GILMOUR.
HE MET MICHELE AT A LOCAL POOL
HALL ON THE LAST NIGHT
SHE WAS SEEN IN TOWN,
11 DAYS AFTER
THE FIGHT WITH HER MOM.
Wood:
HE WAS A MOTORCYCLE-GANG KIND OF
A FELLOW, NOTHING REAL HARDCORE,
JUST KIND OF MORE
OF A SOCIAL GROUP
THAT PARTICIPATED IN MOTORCYCLE
RIDING AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
NARRATOR:
DOUG CLAIMS THEY LEFT AFTER
A FEW HOURS AND DROVE AROUND.
TOOK HER BACK TO MY PLACE,
AND SHE CRASHED ON THE COUCH.
QUITE A GENTLEMAN.
Wood:
AND THE FOLLOWING DAY, HE HAD
DROPPED HER OFF AT A TRUCK STOP,
LOCAL TRUCK STOP
IN SPARTANBURG.
WE KNEW IT TO BE
A SIGNIFICANT-SIZED TRUCK STOP.
THAT COULD BE A VERY
DANGEROUS SITUATION.
YOU HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE
IN AND OUT,
COMING FROM ALL POINTS
OF THE UNITED STATES,
AND IF SOMEBODY HAD THE INTENT
TO DO HARM TO MICHELE,
THAT WAS A GREAT OPPORTUNITY.
SHE HAD MADE THE REMARK TO HIM
THAT SHE WAS GOING
TO MYRTLE BEACH,
SO THAT GAVE US TWO THINGS,
THE TRUCK STOP AND MYRTLE BEACH.
Andrews:
THE POLICE GOT TOGETHER WITH US.
THEY PRINTED UP THESE FLYERS,
AND WE WENT TO ALL THE TRUCKERS
THAT WERE STOPPED IN THE TRUCK
STOP FOR SEVERAL HOURS
AND GAVE THEM A FLYER
AND SAID, YOU KNOW,
"DO YOU KNOW THIS LADY?"
NO, NONE OF THEM DID.
Narrator: WITH NO FURTHER LEADS,
POLICE CAN'T HELP BUT WONDER
IF DOUG, THE LAST PERSON IN TOWN
TO SEE MICHELE ALIVE,
IS LYING TO COVER HIS TRACKS.
IT WAS LIKE, "THIS GUY
HAS TO KNOW SOMETHING.
HE HAS TO KNOW, OR HE HAD
TO HAVE DONE SOMETHING."
Wood:
HE WAS OFFERED A POLYGRAPH,
WHICH HE PASSED
AND WHICH CLEARS HIM,
BUT YOU DON'T FORGET THE GUY,
IN CASE SOMETHING COMES UP,
THAT, PERHAPS, SHE DIDN'T
MAKE IT TO THE TRUCK STOP.
♪♪
WE REACHED DIRECTLY OUT
TO MYRTLE BEACH, SAID,
"BE ON THE LOOKOUT
FOR THIS GIRL.
IF YOU RUN ACROSS HER,
JUST LET US KNOW,"
BUT NOTHING EVER CAME
OUT OF OUR INQUIRY.
Genson: YOU FIND OUT, AGAIN,
THAT IT WAS A DEAD END.
YOUR HEART JUST SINKS.
IT'S LIKE, "WELL, THERE YOU GO.
THERE'S EVEN MORE POSSIBILITY,
NOW, THAT SHE'S GONE."
SHE EFFECTIVELY DISAPPEARED
INTO THIN AIR.
Narrator: AND BY NOW,
LAURA BLAMES HERSELF.
I'M DONE.
WHAT IS THAT
SUPPOSED TO MEAN?
ABOUT THE TIME THAT
SHE WAS GOING THROUGH
A LOT OF THIS STUFF,
THE BIG THING,
THEN, WAS TOUGH LOVE.
YOU NEED TO GO.
I DID GO THAT ROUTE,
AND I LOST MY DAUGHTER.
THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED,
AND SO...I'M SORRY.
I'M GOING TO GET
A LITTLE EMOTIONAL.
♪♪
Narrator:
AS WEEKS TURN INTO MONTHS
WITH NO SIGN OF MICHELE,
POLICE SUSPECT SHE MAY BE DEAD.
Wood: KNOWING THAT MICHELE
DIDN'T HAVE, LIKE, A CELL PHONE,
CREDIT CARDS, DEBT CARDS,
ANYTHING THAT A NORMAL PERSON
WOULD BE UTILIZING,
WE REALIZED THAT SOME KIND
OF HARM COULD HAVE COME TO HER.
I WAS THINKING, "SHE'S GOT
IN A TRUCK WITH A TRUCK DRIVER,
AND SHE'S SOMEWHERE,
BURIED IN A SHALLOW GRAVE
ON THE SIDE OF AN INTERSTATE,
SOMEWHERE," AND OF COURSE,
NOTHING THAT I WANTED
TO RELATE TO LAURA AT THE TIME.
I'M STILL HOPING THAT
SOMETHING POSITIVE COMES UP,
BUT AS MORE TIME GOES BY,
IT'S LESS OF A POSSIBILITY.
I HAD VISIONS OF HER LAYING
IN THE WOODS, DECOMPOSED.
THOSE VISIONS WENT IN AND OUT
ON MY BRAIN, OFF AND ON.
I DIDN'T DWELL ON IT.
I DIDN'T THINK ABOUT IT
EVERY DAY BECAUSE YOU COULDN'T.
YOU'D GO CRAZY.
Genson: I THINK WE ALL JUST
THOUGHT THAT THIS WAS
A "SHE WAS IN THE WRONG
PLACE AT THE WRONG TIME,
AND SOMETHING HORRIBLE
HAPPENED TO HER."
♪♪
Narrator: BY THE ANNIVERSARY OF
MICHELE'S DISAPPEARANCE,
SPARTANBURG POLICE HAVE
RUN OUT OF NEW LEADS,
AND THE CASE GOES COLD.
WHEN IT HIT THE YEAR,
IT WAS EXTREMELY HARD.
IT'S LIKE THERE'S NO WAY
THAT SHE WOULD JUST HAVE LEFT
THE FAMILY
AND LEFT, YOU KNOW,
HER ENTIRE LIFE BEHIND.
I WENT TO EACH ONE
OF THE TV STATIONS
AND BEGGED THEM
TO REDO THE STORY.
ANYONE WITH INFORMATION ABOUT
MICHELE WHITAKER'S
WHEREABOUTS CAN CALL...
Andrews:
IT WAS WITH DETERMINATION THAT,
IF THIS IS GOING
TO HELP FIND MY DAUGHTER,
I'VE GOT TO KEEP AFTER IT.
SOMEBODY OUT THERE KNOWS
SOMETHING ABOUT OUR DAUGHTER.
LIEUTENANT GARY?
Narrator:
A FEW DAYS AFTER MICHELE'S STORY
AIRS ON THE LOCAL NEWS,
POLICE GET A CALL.
OKAY.
Gary: IT WAS AT A FISHING PIER,
OAK ISLAND, NORTH CAROLINA.
SOMEONE SAID THEY THINK
THEY SAW HER UP THERE,
AND THE PERSON APPEARED
TO BE HOMELESS,
NO SHOES AND JUST
RAGGED CLOTHES,
AND THEY THOUGHT
IT LOOKED LIKE HER.
Narrator: OFFICERS IMMEDIATELY
INFORM HER FAMILY.
POLICE CALLED, AND I SAID,
"WE'RE ON OUR WAY."
Narrator: KNOWING HOW MICHELE
LOVES THE BEACH,
HER FAMILY BELIEVES THE TIP
COULD LEAD TO SOMETHING BIG.
AND THEY WENT TO EVERYBODY.
LIKE, THEY WENT ALL OVER
THE BEACH, ON THE PIERS,
EVERYTHING,
PASSING OUT THE FLYERS,
ASKING IF PEOPLE HAD SEEN HER.
YOU'RE ALWAYS HANGING ON THAT.
YOU KNOW, LIKE, EVERY SECOND IS
WAITING FOR MOM TO CALL AND SAY,
"WE'VE GOT SOMETHING."
WE WENT TO RESTAURANTS, BARS,
CONVENIENT STORES, YOU NAME IT,
AND THERE WAS NO SIGN OF HER.
♪♪
Narrator:
EVERY YEAR, THE LOCAL NEWS AIRS
A STORY ABOUT MICHELE
TO REMIND THE PUBLIC
ABOUT HER CASE.
I THINK THAT CALL WAS SOMEONE
WHO WANTED TO SIT DOWN
AND TRY TO HELP US OUT.
Narrator: AND IN AUGUST OF 2005,
A FEW DAYS AFTER THE STORY AIRS,
THE SHERIFF'S OFFICE RECEIVES
AN ANONYMOUS LETTER.
Wood: A LETTER WAS SENT
BASICALLY ABOUT THE WHEREABOUTS
OF MICHELE WHITAKER.
Narrator: WHAT'S INSIDE IS EVERY
PARENT'S WORST NIGHTMARE.
♪♪
WHO IN HELL WOULD DO
SOMETHING LIKE THAT?
THIS IS MY SISTER'S ENTIRE FILE
FROM WHEN SHE WENT MISSING,
FROM DAY 1.
IT STARTS OUT WITH THE FLYERS
THAT MOM AND DAD
PUT UP EVERYWHERE.
IT HAS A PICTURE OF MY SISTER
IN HIGH SCHOOL.
♪♪
HAVING A MISSING SISTER IS 24/7.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT TAKES
OVER YOUR LIFE.
THERE'S NOT A WAKING MOMENT,
AND EVEN WHEN YOU'RE ASLEEP,
WHATEVER, YOU'RE
THINKING ABOUT IT.
♪♪
WE RECEIVED A LETTER
THAT REALLY WASN'T A LETTER.
IT BASICALLY IS A HAND-DRAWN MAP
THAT SAYS,
"MICHELE WHITAKER'S
BODY IS HERE,"
AND IT'S SPECIFIC,
"NEAR WATER'S EDGE,
BURIED UNDER TALL PINES,
SOUTHEAST END OF POND."
THAT'S ALWAYS A BAD THING TO GET
IN A MISSING-PERSON CASE
IS INFORMATION THAT'S SUPPOSED
TO TAKE YOU TO A BODY.
Narrator: THE LOCATION ON THE
MAP IS JUST 25 MILES
FROM WHERE MICHELE WAS
LAST SEEN AT THE TRUCK STOP.
Wood: WE FELT LIKE THIS
WAS TOO POINTED.
IT WAS JUST TOO MUCH
INFORMATION.
APPARENTLY, IT WAS SOMEBODY THAT
HAD SOME PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE
OF WHAT HAPPENED,
AND THEY COULD
HAVE BEEN INVOLVED,
AND WE FELT LIKE, MAYBE,
PERHAPS, THIS COULD BE IT.
[ BIRDS CHIRP ]
WE FOUND THE LAKE,
FOUND THE POINT OF INTEREST
THAT THE PERSON WAS TRYING
TO DIRECT US TO.
WE WENT OUT THERE, LOOKING FOR
THE OBVIOUS SIGNS OF A GRAVE.
Narrator:
FOR TWO DAYS, INVESTIGATORS
SCOUR THE WOODED AREA.
WE SEARCHED.
WE FOUND ABSOLUTELY NOTHING.
THAT'S THE FRUSTRATION PART,
IS YOU START GETTING
EXCITED ABOUT SOMETHING.
THE NEXT THING YOU KNOW,
NOPE, THAT'S NOT IT.
YOU'VE BEEN CHASING THAT
FOR NO REASON.
Narrator:
WITH NOTHING ELSE TO GO ON,
POLICE HAVE THE LETTER ANALYZED.
DNA CONFIRMS IT WAS
WRITTEN BY A FEMALE,
BUT THERE ARE NO FINGERPRINTS
OR CLUES AS TO WHO SHE IS
AND WHY SHE SENT A FALSE MAP.
SOMETIMES, PEOPLE GET THEIR
KICKS, RUNNING COPS LIKE THAT,
TRYING TO LEAD LAW ENFORCEMENT
IN A DIFFERENT DIRECTION.
A LOT OF DAYS, YOU'RE
RUNNING DOWN LEADS
THAT END UP BEING DEAD ENDS.
THEY'RE FRUSTRATING FOR US.
EVENTUALLY, WE DID TELL
THE FAMILY ABOUT THE LETTER
AND THE CIRCUMSTANCES
INVOLVED IN IT.
Genson: AND WE THOUGHT WE MAY
ACTUALLY HAVE SOME CLOSURE,
KNOWING THAT SHE WAS
MAYBE BURIED IN THIS SPOT,
MEANING THAT SHE WAS GONE.
♪♪
BUT THERE WAS NO TRUTH
TO THE LETTER, AT ALL.
IT WAS, LIKE, SOMEONE PLAYING
A REALLY HORRIBLE JOKE.
Narrator:
DESPITE FINDING NOTHING,
LAURA REFUSES TO GIVE UP HOPE.
Andrews: EVEN THOUGH MY DAUGHTER
WAS MISSING,
EVEN THOUGH THERE
WAS A SUSPICION
THAT SHE COULD BE
NOT ALIVE ANYMORE,
I STILL WAS AS DETERMINED,
AND I WAS STILL AS HEARTBROKEN.
Narrator:
TWO MONTHS LATER, ANOTHER CASE
MAKES THE HEADLINES.
A MAN NAMED JONATHAN VICK
IS ARRESTED FOR THE 1995 RAPE
AND MURDER OF BEAUTY-SALON
OWNER DANA SATTERFIELD.
THE CRIME OCCURRED 12 MILES FROM
WHERE MICHELE WAS LAST SEEN.
SHE WAS RAPED, AND SHE WAS
HUNG FROM A PIPE,
COMING OUT OF A HOT-WATER TANK
AT THE BACK OF HER BEAUTY SHOP.
IT WAS AWFUL.
IT WAS VICIOUS, NASTY, HORRIBLE.
Narrator:
THE NEWS RAISES SUSPICION
THAT MICHELE MIGHT HAVE KNOWN
THIS SUSPECTED KILLER.
Andrews:
THE POLICE GOT CONCERNED
BECAUSE SOMEONE HAD REPORTED
THAT SHELLI KNEW THIS MAN,
THIS JONATHAN VICK.
HE WAS A FREQUENT VISITOR TO
THIS DINER THAT SHE WORKED AT.
HOW CAN I HELP YOU?
Narrator: INVESTIGATORS ALSO
LEARN THAT VICK IS CONNECTED TO
ANOTHER MISSING-PERSONS CASE.
THERE WAS AN EX-GIRLFRIEND
OF JONATHAN VICK
THAT ALSO WAITRESSED
AT THE SAME TYPE OF DINERS.
SHE HAD BECOME MISSING.
Narrator: VICK'S EX-GIRLFRIEND,
HEATHER SELLARS,
DISAPPEARED IN SEPTEMBER 2002,
ABOUT A MONTH AFTER
MICHELE WENT MISSING.
Genson:
THEY HAD, ALREADY, YOU KNOW,
A SUSPECT OF KILLING
THE SALON OWNER
IN A HORRIFIC WAY.
THERE'S A LOT OF CONNECTIONS
BETWEEN SHELLI AND HIM,
WHERE SHE WORKS, SOME OF
THE PEOPLE THAT THEY KNEW.
I WANTED TO SEE THIS MAN
AND SEE WHAT KIND OF A MONSTER
HE REALLY WAS.
♪♪
Narrator:
AS NEWS ABOUT SUSPECTED KILLER
JONATHAN VICK MAKES HEADLINES,
POLICE EXPLORE WHETHER
MICHELE WHITAKER
COULD HAVE BEEN ANOTHER
ONE OF HIS VICTIMS.
I THINK WE WERE ALL HOPING,
AGAIN, THAT IT WAS SOMETHING,
THAT EITHER, IF IT WASN'T HIM,
THAT SOMEBODY THAT
KNEW HIM KNEW HER.
WE REALLY WANTED TO HAVE
SOMETHING ANSWERED
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED TO SHELLI.
Narrator:
BUT VICK ISN'T TALKING,
AND INVESTIGATORS
CAN'T FIND ANY PROOF
THAT HE EVER MET MICHELE
OR HAD ANYTHING TO DO
WITH HER DISAPPEARANCE.
Wood: THERE WASN'T ANYTHING
SUBSTANTIAL, BUT AGAIN,
THAT'S ONE OF THOSE
PIECES OF INFORMATION
YOU TUCK AWAY IN
THE CORNER OF YOUR MIND.
YOU DON'T FORGET
BECAUSE YOU NEVER KNOW
WHEN IT MIGHT
BECOME SIGNIFICANT.
Narrator:
JONATHAN VICK GOES TO TRIAL FOR
THE MURDER OF DANA SATTERFIELD.
I WANTED TO SEE THIS MAN
AND SEE WHAT KIND OF
A MONSTER HE REALLY WAS.
I SAT IN THE COURTHOUSE
AND WATCHED THE TRIAL
FOR A FEW HOURS.
HE LOOKED LIKE HE COULD
HURT SOMEBODY.
Narrator: VICK IS CONVICTED
OF THE KIDNAPPING,
CRIMINAL SEXUAL CONDUCT,
AND MURDER OF DANA SATTERFIELD.
HE RECEIVES LIFE IN PRISON,
PLUS 60 YEARS.
HE'S NEVER CHARGED
WITH ANY CRIMES
CONNECTED TO HIS
MISSING EX-GIRLFRIEND,
HEATHER SELLARS,
OR MICHELE WHITAKER.
IT WAS EXTREMELY HARD.
I MEAN, IT'S THE HARDEST THING
EVER TO WATCH YOUR MOM
GO THROUGH THIS AGAIN.
MY MOM NEVER GAVE UP.
♪♪
THIS POSTER WAS PUT TOGETHER
FOR THE SERVICE OF REMEMBRANCE
AT THE CHURCH FOR SHELLI.
AT THE 5-YEAR ANNIVERSARY
OF SHELLI BEING MISSING,
THE FAMILY PUT TOGETHER
A VIGIL FOR HER.
A LOT OF OUR FAMILY CAME.
IT WAS JUST VERY MOVING.
Genson: IT WAS BEAUTIFUL.
I MEAN, WE HAD FLOWERS.
WE HAD PICTURES OF HER.
Andrews: LYNDA WAS SUPPOSED
TO GIVE THE SPEECH
AND TALK ABOUT HER SISTER.
SHE COULDN'T DO IT.
SHE COULDN'T.
THE TEARS STUCK RIGHT HERE,
AND SO HER BROTHER, BRUCE...
[ CHUCKLES HUMORLESSLY ]
HER BROTHER, BRUCE, GOT UP THERE
AND TALKED ABOUT HIS SISTER,
AND I'M SURE
EVERYBODY WAS CRYING,
[Shakily] JUST LIKE I AM NOW,
BUT IT WAS SOME WAY,
I GUESS, IF SHE WAS IN
HEAVEN, TO LET HER KNOW
WE STILL LOVED HER.
Narrator: THE FOLLOWING YEAR,
LAURA DECIDES TO TRY A NEW WAY
TO CONTINUE THE SEARCH
FOR HER DAUGHTER.
THERE WAS A WEB PAGE THAT LAURA
HAD DEVELOPED THAT CONSISTED
OF MICHELE'S PICTURES
OF VARIOUS AGES,
HAIRSTYLES, THAT KIND OF A THING
AND THAT SHE WAS REPORTED
MISSING IN SPARTANBURG COUNTY
ON THIS PARTICULAR
DATE AND TIME,
SHE WAS LAST SEEN
AT THIS PARTICULAR LOCATION,
AND THAT, "IF ANYBODY HAS SEEN
OR HEARD FROM HER,
PLEASE CONTACT US,"
EITHER SPARTANBURG
COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE
OR LAURA, HERSELF.
I WOULD GET SOME MESSAGES
BUT NOTHING THAT
REALLY STOOD OUT
THAT THIS WAS ANYTHING.
Narrator:
THEN, ON AUGUST 4TH, 2008,
A CALL COMES INTO
THE POLICE STATION
THAT FINALLY UNLOCKS
THIS AGONIZING MYSTERY.
I'M SITTING AT MY DESK,
DOING SOMETHING,
AND THE PHONE RINGS,
AND I ANSWER IT...
LIEUTENANT.
...JUST LIKE ANY OTHER DAY.
PERSON ON THE PHONE SAYS,
"I'M CALLING IN
ABOUT MICHELE WHITAKER."
OKAY.
WHAT IS IT?
I SAID, "OKAY. WHAT CAN
I DO FOR YOU?"
SHE SAID, "I KNOW WHERE SHE IS.
I KNOW WHERE
MICHELE WHITAKER IS."
♪♪
[ PHONE RINGS ]
Gary: LIEUTENANT.
YES.
Woman: I'm calling about
Michele Whitaker.
I know her.
Gary:
THE CALLER SAID, "SHE'S ALIVE,
AND SHE'S BEEN LIVING OUT
HERE IN OREGON."
I NEED YOU TO SLOWLY GO
THROUGH EVERYTHING FOR ME.
MICHELE WAS HELPING
TAKE CARE OF FOSTER CHILDREN.
OKAY.
A FRIEND OF THE PEOPLE
SHE WAS STAYING WITH
IS WHO MADE THE PHONE
CALL TO ME.
SHE SAID,
"WE'RE PRETTY SURE IT'S HER."
My kids and I were looking up
people on the Internet.
You know how you do it
just for fun?
SHE SAID, "WE PUT
ALL OF OUR NAMES IN.
WE PUT MICHELE WHITAKER'S
NAME IN THERE.
WE RAN ACROSS THIS WEBSITE."
MICHELE'S MOTHER
CREATED THIS WEBSITE,
SO I WAS FAMILIAR WITH IT.
OKAY. YEAH.
I'M ON THE COMPUTER NOW.
Narrator:
THE WOMAN IS DETERMINED TO
PROVE SHE'S TELLING THE TRUTH.
Gary: SHE TOLD ME WHERE I COULD
SEE A PICTURE OF HER,
AND SO I SEE THIS PICTURE.
DAMN.
AND THERE'S NO DOUBT.
THIS IS HER, AND IT WAS TAKEN,
I THINK, JULY 4TH OF THE YEAR
BEFORE, 2007.
I'M PRETTY ELATED.
I KNEW THAT ALLAN WOOD,
WHO WAS MY SERGEANT AT THE TIME,
KNEW THE FAMILY,
SO FIRST THING I DID
WAS PRINT THE PICTURE
OFF THAT I HAD,
AND ABOVE IT,
I WROTE, "WHO AM I?"
AND I WALKED INTO HIS OFFICE.
HE WAS SITTING AT HIS DESK,
AND I JUST HANDED HIM THE
PICTURE AND DIDN'T SAY ANYTHING.
AND I SAID,
"THAT'S MICHELE WHITAKER,"
AND, "WHERE DID YOU
GET THAT PICTURE?"
AND I KNEW IMMEDIATELY.
IT WAS MICHELE.
Narrator: POLICE ARE STUNNED
TO LEARN THAT MICHELE IS ALIVE.
SHE SEEMED TO BE HAPPY
IN THE PICTURE.
SHE LOOKED HEALTHY.
EVERYTHING LOOKED GREAT
IN HER LIFE.
I WAS JUST TAKEN ABACK BY IT,
THAT IT WAS HER AND THAT SHE
WAS, APPARENTLY, THRIVING.
ONCE I SAW THE PICTURE,
WE DIRECTED A PLAN, BASICALLY,
TO CONFIRM THAT IT WAS HER.
Narrator:
INVESTIGATORS IMMEDIATELY
CONTACT THE OREGON STATE POLICE
WHO SEND OUT AN OFFICER
TO THE SMALL TOWN OF HERMISTON
TO CHECK HER FINGERPRINTS.
[ KNOCKS ON DOOR ]
MICHELE WHITAKER?
Gary: SHE TOLD HIM,
"YES, I'M MICHELE."
SHE GAVE HIM HER
FINGERPRINTS AND ALL.
WE WERE ABLE TO VERIFY.
THAT WAS HER.
Narrator: SERGEANT WOOD
IMMEDIATELY GIVES MICHELE A CALL
AND EXPLAINS THAT HER FAMILY
HAS BEEN LOOKING
FOR HER FOR 6 LONG YEARS.
Whitaker:
OVERWHELMING IS ONE WORD.
HEARTBREAKING IS ANOTHER WORD.
GUILT, BREAKS MY HEART KNOWING
THAT THEY WENT THROUGH ALL THAT,
AND THE LAST TIME WE TALKED
TO EACH OTHER, WE WERE FIGHTING.
Andrews: DON'T YOU
WALK AWAY FROM ME, SHELLI!
I'M NOT FINISHED
WITH YOU YET!
Narrator:
AFTER THE ARGUMENT WITH HER MOM,
MICHELE DRIFTED AROUND TOWN,
TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT HER NEXT STEP.
WHEN I LEFT, I WAS NOT
IN A GOOD PLACE.
I'D BE DEAD.
I WOULDN'T HAVE MADE IT TO 40,
NOT IN A MILLION YEARS.
THERE'S NO WAY.
I WENT FROM HAPPY AS A CHILD
TO THESE BAD THINGS HAPPENING,
AND I JUST WENT DOWN, DOWN,
DOWN, DOWN, DOWN, DOWN,
DOWN AND JUST KEPT GOING.
I HAD TO GET AWAY FROM PEOPLE,
PLACES, THINGS, EVEN FAMILY
BECAUSE I COULDN'T GET IN
A GOOD PLACE IN MY MIND.
Andrews: I'M NOT FINISHED
WITH YOU YET!
I DIDN'T LEAVE TO HURT ANYBODY.
I REALLY THOUGHT IT WOULD
MAKE THEM HAPPY.
WHEN SHELLI IS NOT THERE,
ALL THE, YOU KNOW,
TROUBLES AND WORRIES ARE GONE,
AND, YOU KNOW, HEY, YAY.
AT FIRST, I WAS
GOING DAY-TO-DAY,
LITERALLY WENT INTO DINERS
AND ORDERED FOOD
WITH NO MONEY TO PAY FOR IT,
LITERALLY,
SLEPT ON FRIENDS' COUCHES,
ANYWHERE I COULD SLEEP,
UNTIL I JUST DECIDED
I NEEDED TO LEAVE DOWN.
I PLANNED TO GO TO MYRTLE
AND GET A JOB
AND GET PAID UNDER THE TABLE
SO, YOU KNOW, NOBODY
COULD KNOW I WAS THERE.
Narrator:
BEFORE LEAVING SPARTANBURG,
MICHELE MET DOUG GILMOUR
AT A LOCAL POOL HALL.
Whitaker: I ASKED HIM TO DROP ME
OFF AT A TRUCK STOP.
HE FED ME, AND HE GAVE ME
SOME CLOTHES,
A COUPLE BUCKS
AND DROPPED ME OFF.
Narrator: MICHELE CAUGHT A RIDE
WITH A TRUCK DRIVER
BUT NEVER MADE IT
TO MYRTLE BEACH.
I WENT UP NORTH, AND THEN
I ENDED UP IN VEGAS
AND THEN ENDED UP IN CALIFORNIA,
AND THEN MY FINAL DESTINATION,
BEFORE WHEN THEY FOUND ME,
WAS OREGON.
Narrator:
ONCE IN OREGON, MICHELE WAS
DETERMINED TO START OVER
AND TURN HER LIFE AROUND.
SHE USED HER REAL NAME BUT
STAYED COMPLETELY OFF THE GRID.
HAD I KNOWN WHAT
THEY WERE GOING THROUGH,
LORD HAVE MERCY,
I WOULD HAVE DONE...
SOMEHOW, I WOULD
HAVE REACHED OUT.
Andrews:
HAVE YOU SEEN MY DAUGHTER?
I IMPRESSED UPON HER
ALL THE THINGS
THAT HER MOTHER HAD DONE FOR HER
WHILE SHE'D BEEN MISSING.
Whitaker:
THAT WAS, PROBABLY, THE FIRST
THING I FELT, WAS GUILT,
BECAUSE THEY SPENT SO MUCH TIME
AND EFFORT AND ENERGY AND MONEY
AND EVERYTHING.
I'M JUST STUNNED.
MY MOM AND DAD AND MY SIBLINGS,
THEY LOVE ME THAT MUCH.
Wood: I SAID, "YOUR MOTHER
WANTS YOU BACK.
YOU KNOW? SHE WANTS
TO KNOW YOU'RE OKAY."
Narrator: WHILE MICHELE WRESTLES
WITH HER SHOCK AND GUILT,
SERGEANT WOOD CALLS
MICHELE'S MOTHER.
Andrews: IT WAS ABOUT 10 O'CLOCK
IN THE MORNING,
AND I WAS ASLEEP, STILL.
I'M A LATE SLEEPER.
AND MY PHONE RANG,
AND I ANSWERED THE PHONE,
AND IT WAS ALLAN WOOD,
AND HE SAYS,
"LAURA, WE FOUND SHELLI,"
AND I WAS IMMEDIATELY
WIDE AWAKE.
YOU KNOW, I WAS, LIKE, STUNNED,
AND HE SAID, "SHE'S ALIVE,
AND SHE'S OKAY."
I WENT DOWN THE STAIRS.
MY HUSBAND WAS DOWNSTAIRS
IN THE SUNROOM,
AND I SAID, "CHUCK,
THEY FOUND HER."
[ SIGHS HEAVILY ]
♪♪
[ Crying ] AND I CRIED,
BIT LIKE I'M DOING NOW.
Genson: WHEN MOM CALLED AND SAID
THAT THEY FOUND SHELLI ALIVE,
LITERALLY, LIKE,
YOUR HEART JUST DROPS.
EVERYTHING JUST, LIKE,
"IT'S SOME KIND OF CRAZY DREAM,
SOMETHING. THIS CAN'T BE REAL."
TO GET THAT PHONE CALL WILL BE
[Chuckling] ONE OF THOSE MOMENTS
THAT YOU WILL NEVER,
EVER FORGET, EVER.
Narrator: THE NEXT DAY,
MICHELE FINALLY CALLS HOME.
I REMEMBER THE FIRST THING
I SAID TO HER [SNIFFS] BESIDES,
"I LOVE YOU," [SNIFFS] WAS THAT,
"WE NEVER STOPPED
LOOKING FOR YOU,
NOT ONE TIME, NEVER STOPPED."
Whitaker: I WAS HURT.
I WAS SCARED.
I WAS HAPPY.
I WAS...
AND SHE WAS FEELING, I'M SURE,
MOST OF THE SAME
EMOTIONS, IF NOT ALL.
I REMEMBER SAYING
HOW MUCH I THOUGHT
THEY WERE JUST GOING TO BE HAPPY
I WAS GONE, AND MOM,
THE ASTONISHMENT IN HER VOICE
I CAN STILL HEAR IN MY HEAD.
SHE'S LIKE, "ARE YOU KIDDING ME?
NO! WE'VE BEEN LOOKING FOR YOU."
Andrews: I WASN'T ANGRY WITH HER
FOR WHAT SHE DID.
I JUST REMEMBER THE RELIEF,
BUT STILL, I WAS IN SHOCK
BECAUSE 6 YEARS,
AND THEN, BOOM, ALL OF A SUDDEN,
SHE'S ON THE PHONE.
YOU KNOW?
IT'S SURREAL.
YOU HEAR THAT, BUT IT IS.
Narrator:
A FEW WEEKS LATER, MICHELE FLIES
EAST TO SEE HER FAMILY
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 6 YEARS.
YOUR FATHER.
OH, GOD. IT LOOKS LIKE CHRIS.
[INDISCERNIBLE]
[ LAUGHTER]
Whitaker: I THOUGHT CHRIS WAS
STANDING THERE. I DID.
THERE YOU GO, A LITTLE BIT...
Andrews: OH, GOSH.
SHE CAME DOWN AN ESCALATOR,
IF I REMEMBER RIGHT.
IT WAS AT THE ATLANTA AIRPORT,
CAME DOWN THE ESCALATOR,
AND THAT'S IT.
"MOVE, EVERYBODY.
GET OUT OF MY WAY.
I'M HER MOTHER,"
AND I RAN TO HER
AND JUST THREW
MY ARMS AROUND HER
AND HELD HER AND HELD HER
AND HELD HER.
DO YOU SEE IT?
CAN YOU?
OH, HI THERE.
HOW ARE YOU DOING, SIR?
Man: GOOD.
HOW ARE YOU?
Genson: I DIDN'T EVER THINK
I'D SEE SHELLI AGAIN.
Whitaker: OF COURSE, YOU DO.
Genson: IT WAS CRAZY.
YOU GO, LIKE, EVERY WEEK WITH
TALKING TO YOUR SISTER,
AND THEN 6 YEARS,
AND IT'S LIKE,
"WHOA, WAIT A MINUTE.
LET'S START ALL OVER.
WE GOT A LOT OF
CATCHING UP TO DO."
[ CHATTER ]
Narrator: TODAY, MICHELE AND HER
MOTHER ARE CLOSER THAN EVER.
Andrews:
WE HAD TOO MANY TEARS.
IT'S TIME FOR SOMETHING BETTER.
AMEN TO THAT ONE.
CAN'T CHANGE THE PAST.
YOU CAN ONLY...
THAT'S WHAT I SAID.
...FOCUS ON THE FUTURE.
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT I SAID.
I CAN'T CHANGE WHAT HAPPENED.
ALL I CAN DO IS...
I KNOW I'M IN A BETTER PLACE,
SO THAT'S ALL THAT MATTERS,
RIGHT NOW, AND WE ARE, TOO.
I SAID, "THIS IS THE BEST
OUR RELATIONSHIP,
I THINK, HAS EVER BEEN."
[ Sternly ] LOOK AT ME.
I'M THINKING AS I'M TALKING.
[ BOTH LAUGH ]
STOP.
I THINK SHELLI AND MOM
ARE DOING GREAT, NOW.
THEY WORKED THROUGH SO MUCH.
IT'S AWESOME TO SEE
HOW IT IS NOW.
I KNOW MOM IS HAPPY TO HAVE
HER DAUGHTER BACK,
AND I KNOW SHELLI IS HAPPY THAT
SHE'S GOT THE FAMILY BACK THAT,
YOU KNOW, SHE HAD
FORGOTTEN SHE HAD.
Andrews: SHE'S DOING WELL.
SHE'S MAKING SOME MONEY,
AND SHE'S GOT HER CAR,
AND SHE'S GOT A BOYFRIEND,
AND, YOU KNOW,
I THINK LIFE IS GOOD FOR HER,
AND SHE LIKES HAVING
A NORMAL LIFE.
SHE CAN LOOK IN THE MIRROR
AND LIKE WHO SHE SEES, I THINK.
[ Crying ]
SHE'S COME A LONG WAY.
NOTHING'S PERFECT,
BUT MY LIFE IS GREAT.
I HAVE NO COMPLAINTS.
I'M JUST GLAD I'M BACK.
I'M HOME AND HAPPY.